.\" Man Page for gPhoto by scott... :)
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH GPHOTO 1 "DECEMBER 1998" Linux "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
gPhoto (GNU Photo) \- Digital Camera utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gphoto [-h] [-n] [-s # 
.I filename 
.B ] 
.B [-t # 
.I filename 
.B ]

.B gphoto [-d #] [-l 
.I filename
.B ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gPhoto
is an universal, free GTK+ application that will allow
downloading, saving, and manipulation of images from several
different digital still camera models.

gPhoto has a basic command line interface, which is handy,
if you want to set up a web camera, and use gphoto in a 
script, e.g. with Perl/PHP.

Currently, gPhoto has integrated Eugene Crosser's PhotoPC
library, and is working on more support. Cameras reported to
work are Epson, Olympus, Agfa, Sanyo, and Nikon (CoolPix) digital
models. For a complete list, visit the camera support page at
http://gphoto.fix.no/cameras.shtml

.SH USAGE
.IP gphoto <option> <# of picture> <filename>
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "\-n"
display the # of pictures
.TP
.I "\-s # filename"
save image # as filename
.TP
.I "\-t # filename"
save thumbnail # as filename
.TP
.I "\-d #"
delete image # from camera
.TP
.I "\-l filename"
save live preview as filename
.TP
.I "\-h"
display help screen
.SH FILES
.I $HOME/.gphoto/gphotorc
.RS
gPhoto configuration file
.SH BUGS
At times, gPhoto may crash when closing opened images.
This is a known bug and is being worked on. Additionally,
images may not save correctly. Again, this is being worked
on. Be sure to type the image extension of the desired format
in the filename.
.SH AUTHORS
.BR Scott	Fritzinger	<scottf@unr.edu>

Camera libraries, patches, fixes, plugins, extensions, 
scripts and more from lots and lots of people including 
but not limited to:

.BR Matt		Martin		<matt.martin@ieee.org>
.BR Bob		Paauwe		<bpaauwe@bobsplace.com>
.BR Del		Simmons		<del@cimedia.com>
.BR Clifford	Wright		<cliff@snipe444.org>
.BR Ole		Aamot		<oleaa@ifi.uio.no>
.BR Phill	Hugo			<phill@gphoto.org>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gdk, 
.BR gtk+, 
.BR imlib
