\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-
@setfilename gphoto-users.info
@settitle GPHOTO
@setchapternewpage on
@paragraphindent 2
@iftex
@finalout
@end iftex
@include version.texi

@c Unify all our little indices for now.
@c @defcodeindex sc
@c @syncodeindex sc cp
@c @syncodeindex fn cp
@c @syncodeindex vr cp
@c @syncodeindex tp cp
@c @syncodeindex pg cp

@ifinfo

@dircategory Utilities
@direntry
* gPhoto::                 digital camera application
@end direntry

This file documents gPhoto, the GNU digital camera application.

Copyright @copyright{} 1999 Scott Fritzinger (@email{scottf@@unr.edu})
and Ole Aamot (@email{ole@@gnu.org})

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries a copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided also that
the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end ifinfo

@settitle The gPhoto User's Manual
@titlepage
@title The gPhoto User's Manual
@subtitle The GNU digital camera application

@finalout
@author by Scott Fritzinger (scottf@@unr.edu)
@author texinfo by Ole Aamot (ole@@gnu.org)

For gPhoto version @value{VERSION}

Created: @value{CREATED}

Updated: @value{UPDATED}

PDF format: @uref{http://www.gphoto.org/documentation/users.pdf}

DVI format: @uref{http://www.gphoto.org/documentation/users.dvi}

WWW format: @uref{http://www.gphoto.org/documentation/users.html}

@page

@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 1999 Scott Fritzinger (@email{scottf@@unr.edu})
and Ole Aamot (@email{ole@@gnu.org})

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided also that
the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
permission notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions.
@end titlepage

@ifinfo

@node Top, Introduction, Index, (dir)

@top gPhoto

This file documents gPhoto, the GNU digital camera application.  This 
edition of the documentation was last updated for version @value{VERSION} 
of gPhoto.

@menu
* Introduction::                Introducing gPhoto
* Setting up gPhoto::           How to configure gPhoto for your camera.
* Using the Camera::            Turning your pc into a digital platform.
* Directory Browsing::          Using gPhoto with existing photo files.
* Editing Images::              Modifying images.
* Post-Processing::             Retouching images after downloading.
* Saving Opened Images::        Storing images to media.
* Printing Pictures::           Outputting images to raster devices.
* Plug-Ins::                    Using camera plugins.
* Command-line Mode::           Using the command-line mode
* More Information::            Looking for more information?  Look here.
* Copying::                     GNU General Public License, version 2.
* Index::                       Keywords, concepts, functions, and files.

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Introduction

* Audience::                    The people for whom this manual is written.
* Features::                    Reasons to install and use gPhoto.
* Overview::                    Basic gPhoto functionality and design.
* History::                     How gPhoto was born.

Setting up gPhoto

* Binary Distributions::        Obtaining ready-to-run distributions.
* Compiling::                   Building gPhoto from its source code.
* Configuring::                 Setting up gPhoto with your camera.

Using the Camera

* Getting a Thumbnail Index::   Reviewing images in the camera memory.
* Downloading Pictures::  Transferring images to the computer.
* Deleting Pictures from the Camera::  Erasing from the camera memory.
* Taking a Picture through gPhoto:: Shooting and downloading a snapshot.
* Configuring your Camera::     Setting camera preferences.
* Getting a Summary of your Camera:: Describing details and camera status.

Directory Browsing

Editing Images
* Image Orientation::           Rotating images.
* Image Dimension::             Scaling images.

Post-Processing

Saving Opened Images

Printing Pictures

Plug-Ins

* Live Camera!::                Previewing live and shooting images.
* HTML Gallery::                Generating photo galleries for Web.

Command-line Mode

Copying

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@end ifinfo

@node Introduction, Audience, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

gPhoto is an universal, free GTK+ application that will allow
downloading, saving, and manipulation of images from several 
different digital camera models, or from the local harddrive.

gPhoto has a basic command line interface, which is handy,
if you want to set up a web camera, and use gphoto in a 
script, e.g. with Perl/PHP.  

gPhoto sports a new HTML engine, that let's you create your
gallery "themes" (HTML with special tags), and publish images 
to the web.  A directory browse mode has also been implemented.

gPhoto supports a wide array of digital camera models.  
Visit @uref{http://www.gphoto.org/cameras.php3} for an updated list.

@menu
* Audience::                    The people for whom this manual is written.
* Features::                    Reasons to install and use gPhoto.
* Overview::                    Basic gPhoto functionality and design.
* History::                     How gPhoto was born.
@end menu

@node Audience, Features, Introduction, Introduction
@section Audience

This manual is designed to be useful to everybody who is interested in
using gPhoto.  If you are programmer, check the Programmer's Manual at
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/documentation/programmers.html}

If you are an end-user, and you are looking for help on running gPhoto, 
the first few chapters of this manual describe the essential parts of 
installing, starting up, and using gPhoto.

If you need help with a specific camera library, the best way is to contact 
the library developer or send electronic mail to @email{gphoto-devel@@gphoto.org}.

@node Features, Overview, Audience, Introduction
@section Features

gPhoto is not the most advanced camera utility known to the 
planet (yet), but it does have a number of enticing features:

@table @asis
@item it's free software
Anybody can use, modify, and redistribute it under the terms of the GNU
General Public License (@pxref{Copying}).  gPhoto is one part of the GNU
project, which aims to write a free operating system licensed under the GPL.

@item it's compatible
gPhoto provides the familiar GUI and CLI-based user environments.  For 
all intents and purposes, gPhoto is a very modern photo application.

@item it is built to survive
Unlike other popular camera software, gPhoto has an open structure that 
allows it to evolve without compromising its design.
This structure will help camera libraries undergo major redesign, GUI
application and modifications without having to be entirely rewritten.

@item it's extensible
gPhoto is an attractive platform for learning how to become a library
developer or for implementing new ideas in digital photo technology.

@item it's stable
It is possible to develop and test new gPhoto library components 
without restarting the application (not even accidentally).

@item it exists
gPhoto is real software that works Right Now.  It is not a research
project or a proposal.  You don't have to wait at all before you can
start using and developing it.
@end table

@node Overview, History, Features, Introduction
@section Overview

The gPhoto project is the easiest way for Digital Camera Companies to support 
potential customers who don't use other supported,
proprietary operating systems from Microsoft and Apple.

gPhoto runs on several Unix-like platforms, including most Linux-based variants 
of the free GNU system, distributed and supported
commercially by free software vendors like RedHat Software, Inc., and fund-raised 
by the Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Today, Linux-based variants of the free GNU system, using the kernel Linux 
developed by Linus Torvalds, are in widespread use. There are
estimated to be over 10 million users of such systems today.

The developers working on the project are happy to help companies who wish to 
extend their markets to cover new areas. 

Emailing the developer mailing list (@email{gphoto-devel@@gphoto.org}) is a 
good place to start in procuring our talents. Often it takes nothing more than 
open access to the technical details and a camera or two for testing and development.

Kodak and Minolta both provide specifications openly for their cameras meaning drivers 
for them can be written openly.

Konica has recently started work on a GPL application which Phill Hugo <phill@@gnu.org> 
will incorporate into gPhoto extending the current Konica driver.

It is always a great help for potential camera customers to pressure companies into 
support our work BEFORE you give them your money.

Many companies simply don't have time to look at the issues involved unless there 
is an financial incentive to do so. The more open we can make them, the better gPhoto 
can be and the more enjoyment you'll get from your camera.

The distributed file @file{CONTACTS} contains a list of company members who you can write to 
asking for GPL drivers or open specifications.  Visit the file @file{LETTER} for a template.

@node History, Setting up gPhoto, Overview, Introduction
@section History

@table @asis
@item November 1998
Scott Fritzinger starts writing gtkam from scratch, a GTK+ utility for Eugene Crosser's photopc library.

@item November 05, 1998
Ole Aamot announces the "GNU Photo" project. (See @uref{http://lwn.net/1998/1112/gnuphoto.html})

@item November 11, 1998
"GNU Photo" merges with Scott Fritzinger's "gtkam" application, to produce gPhoto, the ultimate, 
GPL'ed application for digital still cameras, working out off Scott's code-base.

@item November 12, 1998 
Richard Stallman <rms@@gnu.org> gives his blessings to the project and suggests that a command 
line interface would be useful.

@item November 24, 1998
A pre-release version (0.0.1) of gPhoto is released.

Supported options: 
* Preview / Thumbnail index 
* Download / Save images 
* Delete pictures from camera 
* Format conversion (save as any format that imlib supports.) 
* Printing 
* Camera Configuration

@item November 24, 1998

Del Simmons <del@@freespeech.com> joins the gPhoto development team,
and starts working on the Kodak DC20/25 driver.

@item November 26, 1998
Matt Martin <matt.martin@@ieee.org> joins the team, starts working 
on the Fuji DS-7 compatible driver and helps fixing various bugs.

@item December 8, 1998
Jim Thompson <jim.thompson@@pobox.com> announces the Digita project,
an effort to write gPhoto compatible drivers for Kodak DC 220/260.

@item December 16, 1998
Scott Fritzinger announces the gPhoto Developer's Release 0.1.0.

@item December 17, 1998
0.1.1-DR is announced.

@item December 20, 1998
Clifford Wright <cliff@@snipe444.org> announces the RDC-300Z driver
and submits a dozen of bug fixes, and patches for compiling gPhoto 
on NetBSD.

@item December 25, 1998
Scott announces that the HTML gallery plugin is almost completed.

@item December 29, 1998
Jim Thompson <jim.thompson@@pobox.com> and his team announces 
OpenDIS 0.0.1.

@item January 1999
The @uref{http://www.gphoto.org} domain is up and working by
Torfinn Nome <torfinn@@nome.no> at @uref{http://styx.net}, who 
provides server facilities free of charge.
gPhoto now compiles with gtk 1.1, and supports GTK themes.

@item February 1999
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/php3/199902.php3}

@item March 1999
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/php3/199903.php3}

@item April 1999
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/php3/199904.php3}

@item May 1999
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/php3/199905.php3}

@item June 1999
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/php3/199906.php3}

@item July 1999
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/php3/199907.php3}

@item August 1999
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/php3/199907.php3}

@item September 1999
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/php3/199909.php3}
gPhoto 0.4.0

@item October 1999
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/php3/199910.php3}

@item November 1999
gPhoto 0.4.1

@end table

@node Setting up gPhoto, Binary Distributions, History, Top
@chapter Setting up gPhoto

Before you can use gPhoto with your digital camera on your 
favorite machine, you'll need to install its components.  
Currently, gPhoto runs on Intel i386-compatible architectures 
(such as the Pentium).

If you have an unsupported camera or a different architecture, you 
will not be able to run gPhoto until all the required libraries or
the program itself have been ported to the desired platform.

Protocol sniffing is an involved process which requires some 
considerable skills, and is not recommended for the faint-of-heart.  
If you have the talent and desire to write a new library or do a 
port, contact @email{gphoto-devel@@gphoto.org} in order to coordinate
the effort.

@menu
* Binary Distributions::        Obtaining ready-to-run distributions.
* Compiling::                   Building gPhoto from its source code.
* Configuring::                 Setting up gPhoto with your camera.
@end menu

@node Binary Distributions, Compiling, Setting up gPhoto, Setting up gPhoto
@section Binary Distributions

By far the easiest and best way to install gPhoto is to obtain the
binary distribution.  Even if you plan on recompiling gPhoto itself,
it is best to start off with an already-working application so that
you can run the stable version for production work, and still test 
the development version.

gPhoto development sources are committed to the @file{gphoto}
module, in GNOME CVS, see @uref{http://cvs.gnome.org} for details.

Odd number version are development versions only. They are not stable
releases. All stable release will use even number versions. 

You can get gPhoto from a friend under the conditions allowed by 
the GNU GPL (@pxref{Copying}).

You can also FTP the complete gPhoto source code from your closest GNOME
software mirror, or @uref{ftp://ftp.gphoto.org/projects/gphoto/pub/}.
The binary distribution is available in a subdirectory, called 
@file{@var{n.m}}, where @var{n.m} is the version of gPhoto 
that this release corresponds to (@value{VERSION} at the time of
this writing).

The format of the binary distribution is prone to change, so this manual
does not describe in details of how to install it.  The @file{README}
file and @file{INSTALL} distributed with the binary distribution gives 
you complete and the most recent instructions.

After you follow all the appropriate instructions, you will have a 
working gPhoto program.  If you have used other camera utility before,
gPhoto should look quite familiar.

Have fun!

If gPhoto is your first introduction to GNOME and GNU/Linux systems,
perhaps you want to learn more in order to be able to use the environment.

If you have no friends who are already running GNU and Linux, you can find
some useful starting points at the Linux kernel, and GNU project web
sites @uref{http://www.kernel.org} and @uref{http://www.gnu.org/}.

You can also send email to @email{gphoto@@gphoto.org}, to contact
fellow gPhoto users and developers @email{gphoto-devel@@gphoto.org}.  
You can join both these mailing lists by sending a request to 
@email{gphoto-devel-request@@gphoto.org}.

@node Compiling
@section Compiling

You can go through and build and install gPhoto in its source directory:

@file{./configure}

@file{make}

@file{make install}

@node Configuring, Using the Camera, Compiling, Setting up gPhoto
@section Configuring
When you run @file{gphoto} the first time, you will be given a dialog to
select a serial port, and a camera model. Choose a camera, and the correct
serial port, and then click "save" to then save the information. If you
need to change the settings later, go to the "Configure" menu, and choose
"Select Port-Camera Model".

@node Using the Camera, Getting a Thumbnail Index, Configuring, Top
@chapter Using the Camera

@menu
* Getting a Thumbnail Index::   Reviewing images in the camera memory
* Downloading Pictures::  Transferring images to the computer
* Deleting Pictures from the Camera::  Erasing from the camera memory
* Taking a Picture through gPhoto:: Shooting and downloading a snapshot
* Configuring your Camera::     Setting camera preferences
* Getting a Summary of your Camera:: Describing details and camera status
@end menu

@node Getting a Thumbnail Index, Downloading Pictures, Using the Camera, Top
@section Getting a Thumbnail Index

The thumbnail index is a "preview" of what is on the camera.
It lets you select which images to download. In gPhoto, it
is possible to get two different types of an index:

@subsection Thumbnails
Picture previews show up in the index.
This lets you see the available pictures right
away, and select which images to download by
clicking on the thumbnail.

@subsection No Thumbnails
This is a LOT faster than getting an index with
thumbnails, and especially handy if you want
to get a few pictures. A button is provided in the
index for each picture on the camera, but there is
no thumbnail shown. To view the thumbnail, 
double-click on the empty button. You can choose
images to download even if there is no thumbnail
by just clicking on the button to select it.

These options are available in the Camera menu, under "Download Index"
and also as buttons in the toolbar.

@node Downloading Pictures, Deleting Pictures from the Camera, Getting a Thumbnail Index, Using the Camera
@section Downloading Pictures

Once you have selected which pictures to download in the index,
you can then actually download the images and/or thumbnails
two different ways.

@subsection Open in Window
This will load the selected pictures in the gPhoto
window. You can then alter them, or save them as
a different format. A note to the professional
photographers: this will not preserve the EXIF
tags in the image file.

@subsection Save to disk
This takes the pictures you have selected and
saves them directly to disk. You will be prompted
for a directory to save the images to, as well
as a "filename prefix". The prefix is a word or
two that might describe the images, which is 
then appended with the number of the picture.

For exampel: if you selected pictures 1 and 2 to
be saved to disk, and you entered a prefix of
@file{MyCat}, then the images would be saved as
@file{MyCat-001.jpg} and @file{MyCat-002.jpg}.
(the extension depends on the camera library)
	
It is possible to save the pictures, and/or the thumbnails as
well, in case you want to create an index of your images using
the thumbnails. These options are available in the "Camera"
menu, under "Download Selected". The "Images" menu from there only
saves the images; the "thumbnails" menu only saves the thumbnails,
and the "Both" menu saves both the thumbnails AND the images.

@node Deleting Pictures from the Camera, Taking a Picture through gPhoto, Downloading Pictures, Using the Camera
@section Deleting Pictures from the Camera

To delete pictures from the camera, you will need to get
an index, and then select the pictures you want to delete.
In the "Camera" menu, select "Delete Selected Images". You
will then be prompted to confirm whether you want to delete
the pictures. There is also a toolbar button to delete the
selected images.

Please note: some cameras do not allow pictures to be deleted
by a remote program. You will be given an error window if 
deleting images is not supported.

@node Taking a Picture through gPhoto, Configuring your Camera, Deleting Pictures from the Camera, Using the Camera
@section Taking a Picture through gPhoto

In the "Camera" menu, you can select "Take Picture" to have
gPhoto tell your camera to take a picture. 

Please note: some cameras do not allow pictures to be taken
by a remote program. You will be given an error window if 
taking a picture is not supported.

@node Configuring your Camera, Getting a Summary of your Camera, Taking a Picture through gPhoto, Using the Camera
@section Configuring your Camera

From the "Configure" menu, you can select "Configure Camera"
to set various values and options on your camera. This
is very dependent on the camera library, and will result
in different options for different cameras.

@node Getting a Summary of your Camera, Directory Browsing, Configuring your Camera, Using the Camera
@section Getting a Summary of your Camera

A summary of your camera will give you a brief description
of the state of your camera. 

For example, it might display
the number of pictures taken, the number of pictures remaining,
the battery status, or any other information that could be
obtained. This function is very dependent on the camera library
and therefore different cameras will return different
pieces of information.

@node Directory Browsing, Editing Images, Getting a Summary of your Camera, Top
@chapter Directory Browsing

It is now possible in gPhoto to browse entire directories of images. In
the "File" menu, select "Open Directory...". You can then select the
directory to open within gPhoto. You will then see an index of the images
in that directory.

The important thing to note is that the directory browsing mode works the
same as getting pictures from the camera. You select the images you want
to open in the index, then select an option from "Download Selected" under the
camera menu, or from the toolbar, to open the selected images in the
directory. You can open a different directory by selecting "Download Index"
from the "Camera" menu or toolbar as well.

All of the same functionality that you have with the camera options are
present in the directory browse mode, with the exception of 
"Take Picture", "Delete -> Selected Images", and "Camera - Live Preview!" 
(Note that the HTML Gallery Export generator will work!).

@node Editing Images, Image Orientation, Directory Browsing, Top
@chapter Editing Images

To edit an image, you need to first have the image opened in gPhoto.
This can be done either by getting pictures from the camera and
selecting "Open in window", or by opening images from the "Open" option in 
the "File" menu 

Under the "Edit" menu, you will see two different options to edit opened
images.

@menu
* Image Orientation::           Rotating images.
* Image Dimension::             Scaling images.
@end menu

@node Image Orientation, Image Dimension, Editing Images, Top
@section Image Orientation

Options for rotating (clockwise, counter-clockwise),
and flipping (horizontal, vertical).

@node Image Dimension, Post-Processing, Image Orientation, Editing Images
@section Image Dimension

Options for scaling. You can either use the quick
scaling to half or double size, or just click on
"Scale" to specify your own size. In the scaling
dialog, you can enter the desired width and height,
and choose to maintain the aspect ratio (length and
width proportions) by selecting "Constrain Proportions".

Toolbar buttons exist for all but two (double/half scaling) of the above
editing options.

@node Post-Processing, Saving Opened Images, Image Dimension, Top
@chapter Post-Processing

Post-processing lets you extend gPhoto's manipulation and processing
abilities. If post-processing is enabled, then after each image is
downloaded, a specified script is run to work on the image. Rotation,
resizing, gamma correction, and anything else you imagine can be
automatically performed on each image after it is retrieved from the
camera, but before it is opened in gPhoto or saved to disk.

Click on "Post-Process" at the bottom of the main gPhoto window to bring
up the post-processing dialog. You can turn on or off post-processing by
clicking the "Enable Post-Processing". In the text box, you can type in
the command-line to run for each downloaded image with "%s" representing
the name of the image.

Example: If you have a pre-written script in @file{/usr/local/bin} that takes
the degrees to rotate and the image path/name as arguments, you
could use this as a post-process command line to rotate all
downloaded images by 90 degrees:

@file{/usr/local/bin/rotate 90 %s}

(when executed, the %s will be replaced by the full path and name
of the image).

Tip: ImageMagick is already installed on your system if you have gPhoto
running. It contains a host of useful tools for image manipulation, and
most notably @file{mogrify}. Type @file{man mogrify} at the 
prompt for more information. You can do pretty much anything with this 
tool, including time/date stamp, resizing, cropping, etc.

Note to post-processing script authors: the script will need to work on
the image IN PLACE because gPhoto will open the same image after the
post-processing script has exited if "Open in window" is selected.

@menu
@end menu

@node Saving Opened Images, Printing Pictures, Post-Processing, Top
@chapter Saving Opened Images

You can choose to save one or all of the opened images. Under the "File"
menu, select "Save Opened Image(s)". There is also a toolbar icon.

In the dialog, choose a directory to save the image(s) in.

If you only want to save the image you are currently viewing, 
choose "Save all opened images", and type in the full filename to save
the current image as. You can use different file extensions to specify
different file formats, meaning if you want to save the image as a GIF,
give it the ".gif" extension; for JPEG, use the ".jpg" extension; and so
on.

If you want to save ALL the opened images, select "Save all
opened images", and type in a filename prefix to give all the opened
images. Again, when the images are saved, the prefix is appended with an
image number, and a ".jpg" extension. 

For example: a filename prefix of
@file{MyCat} for 2 opened images would save the pictures as 
@file{MyCat-001.jpg} and @file{MyCat-002.jpg}.

@node Printing Pictures, Plug-Ins, Saving Opened Images, Top
@chapter Printing Pictures

Printing pictures is rather straight-forward. Have the image you want to
print opened in gPhoto, and select "Print" from the "File" menu. There is
also a toolbar icon for this.

In the "Print Image" dialog, you can specify the command to give 
@file{lpr} to print the image. The name of a temporary file will 
be appended to the end
of the command, so use of the @file{-r} flag to remove the file 
after printing
is probably desired. If that flag is not present, you will have a spare
picture in your @file{$HOME/.gphoto} directory. Options to give 
@file{lpr} could include specifying which spool to print to, as 
well as any other @file{lpr} flags you could need.

The workings of @file{lpr} are outside the scope of this document. The default
print command that you are given should work fine on most systems given
that @file{lpr} is working properly. For more information on @file{lpr}, 
and other linux-related printing questions, please read the @file{PRINTING-HOWTO}.

@node Plug-Ins, Live Camera!, Printing Pictures, Top
@chapter Plug-Ins

Currently, there are 2 plug-ins included in gPhoto:

@menu
* Live Camera!::                Previewing live and shooting images.
* HTML Gallery::                Generating photo galleries for Web.
@end menu

@node Live Camera!, HTML Gallery, Plug-Ins, Top
@section Live Camera!

This allows you to see what your camera currently
sees. It also provides a button to take a picture
in case you like what you see.

@node HTML Gallery, Command-line Mode, Live Camera!, Plug-Ins
@section HTML Gallery

You can export Web galleries from the selected images
in the index. In the HTML gallery dialog, you can enter
a 'Gallery Name' is a title for the gallery. You will then
need to select a theme. The current gPhoto distribution
contains three gallery 'themes' which are used as
templates when creating your gallery. Finally, you just
need to select a directory to save all the images and
pages in. For an example gallery, head to
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/webserver}
(which shows an example of the very nice CSSTheme theme)

For more information on creating your OWN gallery themes,
please visit @uref{http://www.gphoto.org/docs.php3} and
view the "HTML Gallery engine specs".

@node Command-line Mode, More Information, HTML Gallery, Top
@chapter Command-line Mode

The command-line mode allows you to script gPhoto to perform common
functions from a shell script. Once thing to note though is that
gPhoto will still need X running in order to retrieve the images.
Also, the directory browse mode and camera configuration will not
work due to the high amount of input needed to do either of those
tasks.

Below is a list of the available options, as well as some examples.

@example
Usage: gphoto [-@var{h}] [-@var{n}] [-@var{s} # @file{filename}] [-@var{t} # @file{filename}]
              [-@var{d} #] [-@var{l} @file{filename}]
     -@var{n}                      display the # of pictures
     -@var{s} # @file{filename}         save image # as @file{filename}
     -@var{t} # @file{filename}         save thumbnail # as @file{filename}
     -@var{d} #                    delete image # from camera
     -@var{l} @file{filename}           save live preview as @file{filename}
     -@var{h}                      display this help screen

- Save image number 2 as @file{/www/images/tree.jpg}

@file{gphoto -s 2 /www/images/tree.jpg}
 
- Save image and thumbnail number 5 as @file{car.jpg} and @file{car-thumb.jpg}

@file{gphoto -s 5 car.jpg -t 5 car-thumb.jpg}
 
- Save image 10 as @file{guinea-pig.jpg} and then delete it
          
@file{gphoto -s 10 guinea-pig.jpg -d 10}

- Save a live preview as @file{pretty-boy.jpg}
          
@file{gphoto -l pretty-boy.jpg}
@end example
 
It would be quite easy to write shell scripts to perform all of the
functions you would need from a digital camera application. If you write
any scripts that you find useful, consider sending them to
@email{gphoto@@gphoto.org}  for others to use.

@node More Information, Copying, Command-line Mode, Top
@chapter More Information

The first place you look for any information regarding gPhoto should be
the gPhoto web site at @uref{http://www.gphoto.org}

E-mail support can be obtained by mailing @email{gphoto@@gphoto.org}
This is a mailing list which you can subscribe to. Head to
@uref{http://www.gphoto.org/lists.php3} and subscribe to the gphoto list.

Send Changes and Corrections to Scott Fritzinger (@email{scottf@@unr.edu}).

@node Copying, Index, More Information, Top
@unnumbered Index
@include gpl.texi

@node Index, Top, Copying, Top

@c @printindex cp

@summarycontents
@contents

@bye
