gPhoto 0.4.1

November 20, 1999

For immidiate release.

LAS VEGAS, NEVADA: The gPhoto project members announce the release of
gPhoto 0.4.1, the GNU digital camera application on November 20, 1999,
about 1 year after the project was initially launched.

gPhoto is a digital camera software application for free Unix-like
systems such as Debian GNU/Linux and RedHat Linux, written by
Scott Fritzinger <scottf@scs.unr.edu> -- with assistance from
developers around the world. It is freely available and distributed on
the terms of the GNU General Public License. The GNU GPL is
intended to guarantee freedom to share and change gPhoto--to make sure
it is free for all its users.

gPhoto 0.4.1 ships with 16 different camera libraries and supports 90+
different digital still camera models, from Agfa, Apple, Canon, Casio,
Chinon, Epson, Fuji, Hewlett Packard, Kodak, Konica, Minolta, Mustek,
Nikon, Olympus, Panasonic, Philips, Polaroid, Ricoh, Sanyo, and Sony.
Check http://www.gphoto.org/devel.html for a list of supported camera 
models.

Casio, Kodak, Minolta, Mustek, and Konica provide free, open camera
communication specifications. The gPhoto developers encourage other
vendors to also release specs to their latest and upcoming digital
camera models. It is always a great help for potential camera
customers to ask companies if they support gPhoto before you invest in
a camera.

The file ``CONTACTS'' in the distribution contains a list of companies
that you can write to asking for GPL drivers or camera specifications.

Changes since 0.4.0:
  * Canon A50 library fix, X indep. CLI-invocation and savepictodisk
    caching patch by Rasmus Andersen <rasmus@diku.dk>
  * New Mustek MDC 800 library by Henning Zabel <henning@uni-paderborn.de>
  * Fuji megapixel cams supported, by Matt Martin <matt.martin@ieee.org>
  * Sony DSC-F55E library update by Mark Davies <mdavies@dial.pipex.com>
  * Philips library updates by Bob Paauwe [14]<bpaauwe@bobsplace.com>
  * New HTML Gallery options by Mike Labriola <mdlabriola@mindless.com>
  * Page navigation, port perm. checking, and Delete All added by Ole Aamot <ole@gnu.org>
 
Availability:
  * Source: ftp://ftp.gphoto.org/projects/gphoto/pub/tar/stable/gphoto-0.4.1.tar.gz
  * RPM i386: ftp://ftp.gphoto.org/projects/gphoto/pub/rpm/i386/gphoto-0.4.1-1.i386.rpm
  * SRPM: ftp://ftp.gphoto.org/projects/gphoto/pub/rpm/SRPMS/gphoto-0.4.1-1.src.rpm
 
Requirements
  * X11 Window system: [20]ftp://ftp.xfree86.org/pub/XFree86/3.3.5/
  * GNU sed: [21]ftp://gnudist.gnu.org/pub/gnu/sed/sed-3.02.tar.gz
  * GTK+ 1.2+: [22]ftp://ftp.gtk.org/pub/gtk/v1.2/gtk+-1.2.5.tar.gz
  * glib 1.2+: [23]ftp://ftp.gtk.org/pub/gtk/v1.2/glib-1.2.5.tar.gz
  * imlib 1.8+: ftp://www.rasterman.com/pub/enlightenment/enlightenment/imlib-1.8.1.tar.gz
       
Check the gPhoto project's web site at http://www.gphoto.org for more
details on the effort.
   
All trademarks are properties of their respective respected owners.
